# Migrating from v0.1.0 to v0.2.0

This guide will help you migrate your Doctocat Next.js documentation site from `v0.1.0` to `v0.2.0`.

Although this is a `minor` increment, `v0.2.0` should be considered a `major` breaking change in the framework.

## Breaking Changes Overview

- Requirement for Next.js App Router
- Pages router will no longer be supported
- Internal upgrade of Nextra from `v3` to `v4`
- Updated file/folder structure
- New restriction for Primer component usage

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20 or later
- Existing Doctocat Next.js `v0.1.0` site
- Beginner familiarity with Next.js

## Update Dependencies

First, update your project dependencies:

```bash
npm install @primer/doctocat-nextjs@0.2.0 next@latest react@v18 react-dom@v18
```

## Update Next.js Config

Update your `next.config.{ts,js}` file.

```js
import withDoctocat from '@primer/doctocat-nextjs/doctocat.config.js'

export default {
  ...withDoctocat({
    transpilePackages: ['@primer/doctocat-nextjs'],
    output: 'export', // if you are using GitHub Pages to deploy your site
  }),
}
```

## Add MDX component preloader

Copy this [`mdx-components.js`](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-nextjs/blob/main/packages/site/mdx-components.js) file into your project root.

### Update your file/folder structure

All `mdx` files should now go into a `/content` folder in the root of your project. If you rename your existing `pages` folder, remember to delete any `_app.tsx` and `_document.tsx` files, which are no longer needed.

Create a new `app` folder in the root. This is where the primary layout will reside.

Match the following overall structure:

```
root/
├── app/
│ ├── [[...mdxPath]]/
│ │ └── page.tsx
│ ├── page.tsx
│ └── \_meta.global.ts
├── content/
│ └── your-mdx-files.mdx
└── public/
└── assets/
```

Copy the file contents of each file inside the [app folder here](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-nextjs/tree/main/packages/site/app)

### Configure site metadata

Previously, `publicRuntimeConfig` in `next.config.js` was used for configuring the site title. This has now been removed as this feature is deprecated in Next.js in favour of environment variables.

Create a `.env` file in the root of your project and add the following:

```shell
NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_TITLE = Your website
NEXT_PUBLIC_REPO = https://github.com/org/repo
```

### Migrate React usage to React Server Components

Next.js AppRouter enables React Server Components by default.

This means that any React components in your `.mdx` files will need to be RSC-compatible.

As certain Primer libraries are incompatible at the time of authoring, you will need to move certain component instances to a separate React component and import them into your `.mdx` file under the `'use client'` directive.

Certain low-level components are now preloaded into the Markdown render, these are listed [here](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-nextjs/blob/main/packages/theme/components/library.ts).

This means that you can safely remove the `import` statements for these from your `.mdx` files, and the components will render correctly.

As before, you will need to continue wrapping them in elemends with a `custom-component` class for correct layout.

## Common Issues and Troubleshooting

## Additional Resources

- [Next.js App Router Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)
- [Nextra v4 Migration Guide](https://nextra.site/docs/migration)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-nextjs)
